A [[Pod]] is made up of one or more ephemeral containers.  Some or all of the containers may arbitrarily restart, and we might like to persist data across those restarts.  Volumes solve this problem: they provide storage associated with a pod, accessible to the pod's containers, that can outlive the pod, or not, based on the type of volume and how it is configured.  They may store data *about* the pod, or provide data *to* the pod (e.g. configuration)

Some volume types are bound to the lifecyle of the pod, or to the node.  For example, the `emptyDir` volume type mounts a directory from the node (i.e. the host) file system into containers.  The directory can outlive the pod, but obviously not the node.  For Persistent storage, we should use a `PersistentVolume`, which has a lifecycle independent of any pod.

The `PersistentVolume` abstraction exists to manage the many types of durable storage available for volumes.  A `PersistentVolume` object wraps different storage mediums, like a network file system or cloud provider storage system, in a consistent API that behaves like a K8s object.  Consumers access the `PersistentVolume` via a `PersistentVolumeClaim` object.  Once a PVC is honored, it can be mounted into a pod for use by the pod's containers.  When a volume consumer is done with the `PersistentVolumeClaim`, it can be released, and the resources allotted to the claim can be deleted, recycled, or persisted, based on configuration. 

The [[Container Storage Interface]] is a plugin interface for storage vendors to offer volume storage to container orchestrators like K8s without needing to support multiple plugins for different orchestrators, or modify the orchestrators' source code.  Many vendor-specific PV types, like `awsElasticBlockStore`, are now deprecated in favor of the CSI, which can interface with EBS or many other storage providers.