`logging` module is included in standard library so that third party and first-party code can use the same module for all application logging.

## Levels
1. debug: most detailed
2. info: normal operating events
3. `warnings.warn` is for *library* code to warn consumers they are using the library incorrectly, and should change their code to eliminate the warning
4. `logging.warning` is to be used if the client can't do anything about the event, but it should still be noted
5. `error`, `exception`, `critical` all report that something has not gone as expected, and software may not be able to continue operating

## Structure
Each of the following is part of a `LogRecord` instance

### Loggers
- a 'logger' is an instance of the `Logger` class
- expose the interface that applications can consume
- the purpose of a logger's name is to indicate the part of the application different messages originated in
- get a named logger instance by passing a name to `logging.getLogger`
- loggers are named in a dot hierarchy. E.g. `scan` is the parent of `scan.text` and `scan.image`. Using builtin `__name__` is a good convention, as it causes logger names to mirror the dot hierarchy of your Python modules
- `logging` also exposes direct logging functions like `debug()`, `info()`, etc. These functions use the `root` logger, and their messages will be identified by this name.
- When application tries to log, the level check is the *first* thing that happens. If the desired level is not currently active, the request is short-circuited and nothing happens.
- when a logger is created without specifying a level, its ancestors are searched recursively until a set ancestor is found. If level is never set, `root` is the ancestor of all loggers and has default level of `WARNING`.
- by default, child loggers propagate messages to handlers associated with their ancestors. B/c of this it's usually only necessary to setup handlers on the `root` logger. However, propagation can be disabled by config

### Handlers
- are responsible for getting logs generated by loggers to the correct destination
- multiple handlers can be defined for a single `LogRecord` instance
- handlers can have their own level and filters: `Logger` instance may accept a message based on its own level and filters, but handlers can still opt to reject it

### Filters
- finer-grained control over which records are output

### Formatters
- format logged records